Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be making the mover responsible for its own civilization so that it has a capture state
and it has a restore state and that gets called by the appropriate salable entity and in turn by the
same system to capture the state of the move components directly and we're going to expand this out
to all the components that we add that have salable state.
Let's dive in and see how we're going to achieve this so let's take a closer look at what the issue
is with our salable entity at the moment.
It kind of depends on the movement system it doesn't directly but it depends on some of the things the
movement the system depends on like the nav mesh agent.
If we want to make sure that only the nav mesh agent is responsible for changing those things around
movement then really we should be moving things through the movement system and that means that the
stable entity would need to depend on movement.
Similarly if we want to have our health stored we suddenly need the health system to have or for the
stable entity to have a dependency on the health system.
And as we go on there's going to be more and more features such as the inventory and quests all these
different things that are going to be different components.
All of these different systems will be dependent upon by the same entity.
So we're getting to a situation where now the stable entity itself also knows too much we introduced
it because the saving system was knowing too much about the entities in our world.
Now we need to introduce something else because the save plenty knows too much about the components
on our entities.
How can we do this.
Well we can introduce an interface to basically invert these dependencies and I'm going to call this
intimate interface the eye saver ball.
So the movement system will implement the IceSave bill interface.
The health system will implement the IceSave bill interface and now all this saleable entity needs to
know about is that it's got a bunch of components that implement the IceSave bill interface.
What could that I saleable interface look like.
Well I think we've probably got a fairly good idea already you can kind of challenge yourself if you
like to have a look at what that might look like.
We're just closing down some tabs because we want to open up our stable entity.
So what we've got here is we've got to capture state in a restore state what basically we just want
to move those also down to a IceSave bill.
So let's go ahead and create this IceSave bill going to create a new class.
Will it I save a.
Yes.
And then I'm going to implement an interface in here like so called IceSave bill.
I'm going to stick it in a namespace.
Cut that out.
Create a namespace of RPG saving and then paste a saleable interface in there and then what we want
to do is just define the public interface.
So the first one as we said was a capture state.
And I do just want it to return an object.
I want to say hey saleable components whatever you are whether you are a movement system or a health
system.
I just want to get your state.
So that's what it's gonna do capture state and then the second one is just the same as this one restore
state.
We can literally copy it over because what it's going to do is say hey here's some state saleable object
that you told me you wanted to know about later.
Now go ahead and update yourself to represent that state and that's all there is to it and that's what
I saved Bill is okay.
So now what we want to do I'm just going to comment out our restore state and capture state because
these really are going to move over to the mover and I'm gonna challenge you to do that later.
But first of all let's have a look at how we would go about capturing the state.
The first thing we can do is fortunately we can do get components and we can use the type of a interface
to get all components that implement the interface.
So I say Bill should get as a list of components that all implement the IceSave bill interface so you
can see if I hover over it saying that I get an array of Icesave bills back from this and I'm going
to do this in a for each loop where we are going to have IceSave bill being the Save a bill in the collection
which is just going to be this get components collection.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to iterate over all the components on this saver Bill entity that
implement the IceSave bill interface and we're going to ask them to capture their own state and to do
that we Bangor had to store that state in something best way to do this because we want to access it
again when we're going back to these components is to have a look at the type basically and to store
that type in a dictionary.
So I'm going to create a new dictionary here that's going to be the state that we're going to return.
So it's going to be a dictionary again just from string because we're going to convert the type of the
component to a string to the object.
And if this is making sense it'll click in just a second.
I'm gonna call this the state like so and we're going to create a new dictionary for this to happen.
A new dictionary of that type String object type and that should do the trick.
Now for me I just need to add in this collection's generic.
And then it is happy.
That's what we're going to return at the end of our statement.
I'm noticing it's giving me an Arab because there's no thing returned from our capture state and that's
fine capture state doesn't mind whether it's an object what type of object this April and c return so
we can return anything and in our case a dictionary we know is a serial sizable thing.
Great.
Then what we're going to do is we're going to go through each savable and in our state we are going
to update a key or create a key for each salable where we're taking the saver bulls type so getting
its type but then we're converting that type to string.
So what this means in practice is that if our saver will work for example the move system then it's
going to say hey the type here is mover and I convert that to string then we're just going to get the
string mover.
So our state is going to can take a mapping from mover to the state that move are created for us.
Once we do this.
So we're gonna set it equal to the saver Bill dot capture state.
So that's saying hey move to capture your own state and then capture state stores that in a dictionary
by the string of its type.
So that's what we want to be able to achieve.
Now you might be asking yourself Hey Sam why does get type return the something like mover here.
I see that the array is of type I save about why doesn't get type return that type which I think is
the type of this variable.
Well you have to understand something called compile time versus run runtime types essentially every
variable has a compile time type but it also has a runtime type.
What do I mean by this.
Well at compile time all the compiler knows all that C sharp knows is that the contents of this array
is I saved Bell and that means all I can call is methods that are in I saved Bell but at runtime it
knows a bit more.
It knows exactly which class is implementing this I save.
For example it might be a move of the implements I save but it might be health it might be fighter and
you can end up with an array that actually has lots of different types in it.
Now you wouldn't have been able to compile code that calls any of the mover methods or the health methods
because at compile time it didn't know that the contents of that variable was a health component or
remove a component.
It could only call IceSave bill.
However when we call a method like get type its behavior changes depending on what the actual runtime
type is.
So if at runtime we've got a mover in that variable then it's going to return move.
If we've got health in that variable then it's going to return health.
And that's the difference between compile time types and runtime ones.
Now I'm gonna go ahead and do the restore state here as well for you.
But if you feel like hey I get this I could do a restore state myself then pause a video and do give
it a shot for yourself.
Otherwise I'm going to go ahead.
Okay.
So I'm going to plow ahead.
Now what we've got here is it's coming in as object state.
Now this is because when it was passed to us we don't know what that type was we're going to have to
do a cast in here to the string object state here.
This dictionary now.
That's okay we can do that.
Now I'm going to say that I'm going to call it the state dict again state dict like so.
And that is going to be a cast of the states that we got in.
So like so got a dictionary String object called state dict which is a casting of dictionary String
object state because it could be other types.
And we just need to make sure.
So the state dict now we've got a mapping from base of the component names to the state that we want
to restore.
So again very much like we did at the top level top level in our savings system.
We are going to do a for each again just over the components that are already there rather than everything
that's in the dictionary.
And then we are going to mess up my brackets a little bit here to sort that out.
Then in this for each loop we are going to look up these components and restore their state and again
we probably want to make sure that the key is already there in the dictionary before looking it up.
So I'm going to basically call this the type string which is going to be the saleable types string as
we've done up here in the state.
So with this type string what we're going to do is just say if the state dict contains the key type
string then we can actually go ahead and restore that state and we're gonna do that by doing the saver
Bill dot restore state like so and then pass it the object state which we get out of the state dictionary
so state dict and we get the key which is the type string here to retrieve the correct state from our
dictionary for our mapping of dictionary.
Okay.
So now I'm just gonna reinvent that comment properly.
What we've got is that should be restoring all the state of all the Icesave balls that we have got.
Great.
Cool stuff.
Now we actually need some Icesave calls because we haven't got them.
So we've got their mover script which is a prime example of where we want a nice saleable.
We want to save all the location state from here so I'm going to do and I saved Bill as an additional
interface that we want to derive from.
So here we've already got an eye action.
We're also now going to do I saleable and you notice it's going to ask me to show some fixes want to
include the RPG saving namespace.
We also want to implement the interface and I'm just gonna go and choose that first option just to implement
the interface and what that's done is it's added a couple of methods at the end of our class which are
not implemented and I'm going to want you to implement.
So here's your challenge like you want to implement capture and restore.
We've had this code before.
So go and find it.
We want to capture the position and restore the position and I want you to check that it all works as
you would expect that basically it should be working exactly as it did at the beginning of the lecturer
before we did the refactor.
That's the purpose of a refactor not to change implementation but to achieve the same plan implementation
with nicer code.
Paul's video and have a go okay.
Welcome back.
So let's give this a shot.
As I said we've already got the code if we go it several entity I've just commented out to capture the
state.
We're just getting that serialized Bill vector 3 to go over a mover and just return instead this serialized
vector three that should be enough to capture the state of the move at the location basically.
And similarly the restore is more complicated but it is still fundamentally a restore of that location
so we can go ahead and take that code we've already written and what that code was doing just a reminder
it was it was getting the civilized vector three and just making sure that that's what we got from now
restore state because it could be called or something else if it was from a previous version and the
nav mesh agent we are disabling so that we can move our transform then re enabling it and cancelling
the current action scheduler.
Now there's a bit of a debate as to whether canceling the action schedule is really something for the
move to do.
We could potentially put that into restoring the action scheduler itself.
That when you choose to restore the action schedule it just cancels the current action.
That is another way that we might want to do this.
OK.
But I think that's a pretty good place to leave it.
Let's go ahead and try it out in Game World.
If I go ahead and hit play I would expect this won't actually work necessarily if we go and just load
up a previous game file.
I think though I've already deleted my save file so just remember you might need to delete your save
file because we've actually changed the structure of what we're saving here.
We're now saving this dictionary at the saved Bell entity level rather than directly saving this serialized
vector 3.
So if your thing is complaining about things that basically casts that don't work we're going to have
an issue here on line 31 because it's going to be trying to say Hey this thing's a dictionary.
But actual fact see shop knows that what it does serialized was a reliable realizable vector 3 and that's
where it's all going to come down.
So you're going to just want to delete your save file and start from scratch to create a new save file
here.
OK.
And so we can save and you can see if I go ahead and move and load it takes me back to the location
where it was.
And hopefully you'll be able to see that if I take a guard and lure him away and save his location and
then load the location it takes us both back to that location before.
So it's working for all salable entities guards included and all their components great stuff.
So we've reviewed how we can invert the dependencies and make this much easier to add new components
in the next section we're going to add the health component in for this as well and do a bit of other
polishing off necessary in order to make the safe system easier to work with as we go forward.
See that.